Update Windows setup and build README.md (#7)
strawberrymusicplayer/strawberry-msvc: README.md

:hammer_and_wrench: Strawberry - Build with Visual Studio 2022
================================================================
# :hammer_and_wrench: Strawberry - Build with Visual Studio 2022

This guide uses Visual Studio 2022 to build Strawberry as well all required libraries.
This guide uses Visual Studio 2022 to build Strawberry Music Player as well as required dependencies.

These instructions are provided as-is, they are primarily intended for developers working on Strawberry on Windows.

We do not offer support to users for building Strawberry on Windows.

Build tools (Git, CMake, Meson, Perl, Python, etc) versions are not regulary updated, so make sure you bump the versions in versions.bat before you run install.bat.

> ### Requirements

Reviewer: I'd like to keep the requirements list.

Author: Restored in 5d749b413e845a23772b20f69a6b5b8aa638ae6f.

> ## Links

Reviewer: We don't need these links

Author: Removed in c913f626653c89f59e36a5162179a8709be0fa6e.

- [Forum](https://forum.strawberrymusicplayer.org)
- [Github sources](https://github.com/strawberrymusicplayer/strawberry)
- [Github MSVC](https://github.com/strawberrymusicplayer/strawberry-msvc)
- [Github MSVC prebuilt binary dependencies](https://github.com/strawberrymusicplayer/strawberry-msvc-dependencies)

> ## Manual installation on Windows

Reviewer: I think this should be under Windows setup too. Also, probably the PATH settings under it's own subtitle, perhaps:
- Installing requirements
- Preparing system for building

Author: Subtitles restructured in 93eda230a80a2b37133c5e9e79d7c008b80c9b46.

Download and install manually:
- [Git](https://git-scm.com/downloads)
    - Default settings can be used
- [Visual Studio 2022 Community](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/vs/)

>     - Select `Desktop development with C++`

Reviewer: Is this enough, does it install C++ CMake tools for Windows?

What about Qt VS Tools for Visual Studio 2022?

Author: > Is this enough, does it install C++ CMake tools for Windows?

Yes, when checking checkbox `Desktop devleopment with C++`, it installed all features/dependencies listed in the screenshot below, including `C++ CMake tools for Windows`. No other checkboxes are needed:

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/1a6afa87-0ef9-4f0d-a06f-4794fa6fae77)

> What about Qt VS Tools for Visual Studio 2022?

No, this is not installed automatically and not needed to build Strawberry debug or release. I think it is suseful for development.

Installation is described here: https://www.qt.io/blog/qt-vs-tools-for-visual-studio-2022.

Microsoft likes it to change interfaces, so in my version it looks like this:

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/9a3696fe-d5ce-41c7-b82a-34b91534b83a)

## Windows setup

> Open a Windows Terminal and type:

Reviewer: Command prompt

Reviewer: I still have Windows 10 :)

```
mkdir C:\data\projects\strawberry
cd C:\data\projects\strawberry
git clone https://github.com/strawberrymusicplayer/strawberry-msvc.git
cd strawberry-msvc
.\download.bat
```

Install manually from `C:\data\projects\strawberry\msvc_\downloads`:
- **Required**:
    - Install `7z<VERSION>-x64.exe`
    - Install `cmake-<VERSION>-windows-x86_64.msi`
    - Install `python-<VERSION>-amd64.exe`
        - In first dialog:
            - Check: `Add python.exe to PATH`
            - Click `Install Now` (to use defaults)
        - In dialog `Setup was successful`:
            - Click: `Disable path length limit`
    - Install `strawberry-perl-<VERSION>-64bit.msi`

>     - Extract `win_flex_bison-<VERSION>.zip`

Reviewer: Extract to `c:\win_flex_bison`

Author: Good point: I've tested by setting an environment variable to `C:\data\projects\strawberry\msvc_\downloads\win_flex_bison-<VERSION>` and is no longer needed by extracting to `C:\win_flex_bison`. :+1:

Fixed in 2c2b21d20ebdc7232f6079114a627052fd7f1cb3.

- **Recommended: When building dependencies from source**:
    - Install `nasm-<VERSION>-installer-x64.exe`

>         - Run as normal user and click OK 

Reviewer: I suggest to change this to a normal installation using administrator to ``C:\Program Files\NASM``

Author: Correct, path `C:\Program Files\NASM` is used in `build.bat`, so there is no environment variable needed.

Fixed in 83adf8f6c50e2a7f070a760bc17b2987531e0229.

    - Extract NSIS `LockedList.zip` plugin:
        - Copy `LockedList\Plugins\LockedList64.dll` to `C:\Program Files (x86)\NSIS\Plugins\LockedList64.dll`
        - Copy `LockedList\Plugins\x86-unicode\LockedList.dll` to `C:\Program Files (x86)\NSIS\Plugins\x86-unicode\LockedList.dll`
    - Extract NSIS `Inetc.zip` plugin:
        - Copy `Inetc\Plugins\x86-unicode\INetC.dll` to `C:\Program Files (x86)\NSIS\Plugins\x86-unicode\INetC.dll`
    - Extract NSIS `Registry.zip` plugin:
        - Copy `Registry\Desktop\Plugin\registry.dll` to `C:\Program Files (x86)\NSIS\Plugins\registry.dll`
        - Copy `Registry\Desktop\Plugin\registry.dll` to `C:\Program Files (x86)\NSIS\Plugins\x86-unicode\registry.dll`

Delete `pkg-config` files to prevent conflicts with Strawberry's own `pkg-config`:
- Delete `C:\strawberry\perl\bin\pkg-config`
- Delete `C:\strawberry\perl\bin\pkg-config.bat`

Windows Settings | System | About | Advanced system settings | Tab Advanced | Environment Variables:
- System variables | Path | Edit:
    - Delete: `C:\Strawberry\c\bin` (To prevent conflicts with other utilities)
    - Add: `C:\Program Files\Git\bin` (This is for `sed` and `patch` utilities)

>     - Add: `C:\Users\user\AppData\Local\bin\NASM`

Reviewer: `C:\Program Files\NASM`

Author: Environment variable to `NASM` removed, but I have to test it.

Fixed in 83adf8f6c50e2a7f070a760bc17b2987531e0229.

>     - Add: `C:\data\projects\strawberry\msvc_\downloads\win_flex_bison-<VERSION>`

Reviewer: Anything under the msvc_ directory is used by the bat files and shouldn't be used for permanent installation, I suggest to change this to `c:\win_flex_bison`, it's already done by install.bat

Author: Path `c:\win_flex_bison` is used by `build.bat`, so removed environment variable.

Note: The `install.bat` does not install Python, Meson, NASM and NSIS correctly and works only with a manual installation, so did not mention this script. Maybe for another MR to fix.

Path environment variable to `win_flex_bison` removed in 2c2b21d20ebdc7232f6079114a627052fd7f1cb3.

### Meson installation

Building with Meson 1.6.0 installation results in build issues
[meson: error: unrecognized arguments:](https://github.com/strawberrymusicplayer/strawberry-msvc/issues/6).

A temporary solution is to remove Meson via Windows Settings | `Apps or remove programs`.
Then install Meson via Python PIP system wide. Start | `x64 Native Tools Command Prompt for VS 2022` and type:

```
pip install meson
```

## Optional: Prebuilt binary dependencies

Prebuilt MSVC binaries can be optionally used to speed-up the build process. When this step is skipped, all libraries and dependencies are build from source.

To use prebuilds, download the following `tar.xz` files from Github [strawberry-msvc-dependencies/releases](https://github.com/strawberrymusicplayer/strawberry-msvc-dependencies/releases):
- For debug, extract `strawberry-msvc-x86_64-debug.tar.xz` to `C:\strawberry_msvc_x86_64_debug`
- For release, extract `strawberry-msvc-x86_64-release.tar.xz` to `C:\strawberry_msvc_x86_64_release`

## Build Strawberry from source including dependencies

> - Set one debug or release in `Path` environment variable:

Reviewer: `PATH `not `Path`

Author: On Windows 11 this changed to `Path`:

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/199e96c5-e041-4751-b37e-7052d3af0754)

Both `set Path` and `set PATH` works as it is not case sensitive like Linux.

    - For debug: `C:\strawberry_msvc_x86_64_debug\bin`, or:
    - For release: `C:\strawberry_msvc_x86_64_release\bin`
- Start | `x64 Native Tools Command Prompt for VS 2022`:
```
cd C:\data\projects\strawberry\strawberry-msvc
```

For debug build:
```
.\build.bat
```

For release build:
```
.\build.bat release
```

Strawberry and Windows installer executables are generated in:
- For debug: `C:\data\projects\strawberry\msvc_\build_debug\strawberry\build\`
- For release: `C:\data\projects\strawberry\msvc_\build_release\strawberry\build\`

> ## Debug Strawberry with Visual Studio

Reviewer: Setting up Strawberry for development in Visual Studio 2022

(Not just debugging)

Author: Changed in 999b2013e9fc94c493ce2420c16f45a53608195a.

Debug build:

> - Make sure path `C:\strawberry_msvc_x86_64_debug\bin` is set in environment variables

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Make sure the path `C:\strawberry_msvc_x86_64_debug\bin` is added to the `PATH` environment variable before starting Visual Studio 2022.
```

Author: Fixed in 020ff659e85a345cc9c52eaa008c3ef6938cf9e0.

- Start | Visual Studio 2022

> - Open a local folder `C:\data\projects\strawberry\msvc_\downloads\strawberry`

Reviewer: Don't use this directory as it should be seen as a temporary directory used by the bat files, use: ``C:\data\projects\strawberry\strawberry``.

Author: I assume your idea is to add a clone of the Strawberry source repository in section `Windows setup`? I don't have it on my disk after running `download.bat` and `build.bat`:

```diff
mkdir C:\data\projects\strawberry
cd C:\data\projects\strawberry
+git clone git@github.com:strawberrymusicplayer/strawberry.git
git clone https://github.com/strawberrymusicplayer/strawberry-msvc.git
```

- Toolbar Project | CMake Settings:
    - Select Configurations `x64-Debug`
    - Add `CMake command arguments`: `-DARCH=x86_64 -DICU_ROOT=c:\\strawberry_msvc_x86_64_debug`
- Select in the toolbar `x64-Debug`
- Toolbar: Build | Build All

Release build:
- Make sure path `C:\strawberry_msvc_x86_64_release\bin` is set in environment variables
- Start | Visual Studio 2022
- Open a local folder `C:\data\projects\strawberry\msvc_\downloads\strawberry`
- Toolbar Project | CMake Settings:
    - Create new `x64-Release`
    - Select Configurations `x64-Release`
    - Add `CMake command arguments`: `-DARCH=x86_64 -DICU_ROOT=c:\\strawberry_msvc_x86_64_release`
    - Save the changes
    - In the toolbar select `x64-Release`
    - Project | Delete Cache and Reconfigure

>     - Uncheck: `ENABLE_WIN32_CONSOLE`

Reviewer: Add `-DENABLE_WIN32_CONSOLE=OFF` to CMake arguments instead of this.

Author: Yes, your suggestion is better.

Changed in 1bfe2ab0a2f5d10a63b05d64d50d919a2a6cfee8.

- Toolbar: Build | Build All

> Set breakpoint and press F5 to step through the code.

Reviewer: This is wrong, F5 is continue, F10 is step.

Author: Reworded in 34af329fe7723cf1eda80f8c60be094db344f154.
